the process of learning Chinese you know
it's a little weird I can practice the
language in theory talking about
anything and for the first several
months I was mostly talking about and
reading and writing about politics this
is actually fucking essay i'm writing
about how to use a bread machine to bake
vegan bread because i decided i needed
to practice that kind of grammar and
also that vocabulary I needed to know
the vocabulary for you know wheat and
yeast and flour and gluten gluten
content there's like technical
vocabulary this I need to know if I'm
going to be able to buy flour and bake
bread mom living in China but a lot of
what I've talked about with my with my
teacher just to practice the language
has been my personal life and one of the
reasons to do that I mean I guess this
is advice for anyone learning a language
especially learning a really difficult
language like Chinese is that when you
talk about your personal life you're
highly motivated to use the language
with precision so to give you an example
if I'm talking about a fictional
scenario I don't really care about like
I'm talking about a storybook something
happened to movie you might just say oh
yeah this woman was in love with this
guy you'll just use the word love
because love is a simple verb it's a
simple concept sounds simple but right
in my very first couple of weeks here I
remember asking questions my teacher
like okay I don't want to say love I
need to be able to say this woman had
feelings for me you know and words like
she had conflicting she had mixed
feelings she had mixed emotions she had
strong feelings toward me but not love
you know what I mean love is you know a
few steps beyond so we talked about your
personal life and you're struggling to
learn a language because believe me I'm
like level one in Chinese I just have
ludicrously good handwriting for someone
who kind of all okay I'm reflecting my
background and a bunch of other Asian
languages but you know it may seem
self-indulgent to talk about your
personal life but it's really the
opposite if I was talking about Batman
or some really boring scenario out of a
language textbook you know like a lot of
link that language were using Canada it
was all boy boy dating girls
ariel's but it was just boring fiction
about some boy falling in love with some
girl then you're you're going to use the
vocabulary that's easiest for you and
when you're really trying to give an
honest account of your own life and
things you care about it pushes you to
use the language of your accuracy so
those you can remember way back a couple
months ago to my podcast with American
unicorn so it was a conversation you
know both of us on skype the same time
to voices not just not just me giving my
look that opened up with me joking
around about how much of a crush I had
on this one woman one woman and I had so
much of a crush on her I was joking i
said look at this stage i don't really
know anything about her um but like if
it turns out she has a part-time job at
a slaughterhouse I'm gonna make excuses
you know if people will work it out like
a vegan she works in a slaughterhouse
but our love can conquer all so I was
joking around about this kind of thing a
little bit because obviously this one
was was not vegan um you know reflecting
on it later with you know in Chinese
talking about it with my chinese teacher
that was really talking about just to
practice the language with accuracy I
reflected on both how I developed a
crush on her and when I lost the crush
when I just stopped caring when I
stopped having any feelings toward her
and I mean it's interesting I think
normally you don't reflect on those
things because one it's just not that
important and two you'd be busy with
your job responsibilities you just have
other stuff on in life when you wouldn't
reflect on that with such accuracy when
did I start feeling this way when did I
stop feeling this way what change how
did I perceiver and the other Emile
there were there are a lot of reasons
why this is a sort of very closely
examined example in my life you know um
so this this woman she's not like you
know I've already totally like I really
was sprung on her I really had a crush
on her but she's not objectively
speaking the most beautiful woman who
was even talking to me during this
period of time
um there were other women who are
objectively better looking some of whom
were really pursuing me and really
interested me you know there were two
moments against because of reflect on
this because I talked about it in
Chinese you're forcing yourself to
translate and think of that accuracy you
know there was one moment when I just
saw her it has to do with a particular
setup in the gym I saw her getting
psyched up to teach one of her classes
so she was just mentally preparing she
was staring into the mirror getting
psyched up and just by coincidence
happened to be there standing next to
her and you know she wasn't even looking
at me she's looking at the mirror and
she's getting psyched up and of course
that made her seem so focused and so
intense and so intelligent emits a
complete illusion which you got to see
you're getting into the zone to do her
thing and then marching off to go teach
your class and this kind of ultra
focused ultra alert state that made a
big impression and it was just her
facial expression and the look in her
eyes and he thought wow you know there's
there's a there's somebody can get out
there and conquer the world there's
somebody can get things done just made a
really positive impression of me by the
way I have talked to her bunch times you
say I relaxed is no big deal but then
you know there were a couple other
moments the first time I saw her with a
kid I was just walking past her in a
rush I didn't know who was her kid hello
maybe she's married with kids which for
that every indication was that you said
maybe she's a single mom or something
she's with this kid I remember she held
up the kids like show off to me which
again women here have a lot of ways
showing years but I wondered like it
seemed like she was trying to show me
like look I'm good with kids which women
here do when they're interested you
there are million different things women
do to show their address new year not
worth the dressing on but then I saw her
playing with kids a couple other times
and I realized that there were just
these were not her kids she's not
married she doesn't have kids but she
was the kind of person who liked to
passed the time by playing with you know
I don't even if they're close friends
she was friends with other parents and
she was minding their kids for 15
minutes or whatever well the
were I don't know buying themselves a
cup of coffee or something you know that
kind of situation that she was somebody
really actively volunteered to do that
because she loved taking care kids I
mean there was one moment again both
these are really fleeting moments but I
had to sit down on a chair and tie up my
shoes again time I should make some
little adjustments because working out
the gym and she was sitting there and
she had made out of out of some of the
fitness equipment some of the some of
the ropes hanging from the ceiling you
know the ropes that are there so people
can do some certain types of exercises
she made a little improvised swing and
with this kid that was barely a toddler
you know it's halfway between being a
baby in a toddler she was sitting down
on the floor and in this really kind of
caring way you know taking care of this
this kid again for 15 minutes or
whatever it was and you know what just
shattered me you know you guys know my
background in terms of my divorce that's
still paperwork still isn't done on and
my own daughter who you know I want to
be seeing regularly and I'm not you know
and you know all those connections there
my own experience with the fact that you
know I i didn't i didn't have a job
during my daughter's early life first
year of my daughter's life i was with
her 24-7 at Motown wasn't with my
daughter's when I was doing the grocery
shopping or mopping the floor cooking or
whatever but his dad was in the house
with my daughter so really did have that
bond and have that experience in a way
that a lot of fathers don't if you just
have a normal job you know at home with
your kid and you know that moment also
of seeing that woman playing with that
kid really really got to me you know we
just think wow it's it you know and in
both of those moments they're not really
based on her appearance they're based on
her conduct are based on her behavior
and the qualities they make me imagine
that she has you know based on those few
little moments now get I probably
wouldn't have even noticed this if I was
just busier
you know whatever if I had a full time
job but even for whatever reason you
know I really really noticed also at the
moment when I lost interest which is
just one of a million times when I saw
her the same woman sitting and sending
text messages on her cell phone which
nothing wrong with it there's no big
deal but I remember this this particular
moment you know I just kind of walked
past her and I saw her sitting there and
writing text messages and that
particular situation that particular
woman i just had to reflect you know
what the reality is even though you know
I've seen this women play with the kid
there have been these other moments and
I've had had conversations with her I've
talked to her you know what the reality
is this is somebody who never reads
books this is somebody who spends all
the time you know playing with her phone
and feeling was gone um just completely
gone never came back you know what I
mean um anywhere remember I asked my um
I remember I asked my my chinese teacher
about this because in Chinese culture I
have all kinds of different experiences
with you know different ambiguous
situations but I remember you know
something that's a little bit distinct
to the Chinese culture so this woman she
said she's a personal trainer at the gym
she's the professor she's an employee of
the gym the only ones that I ever ask
her something about the gym I already
know how to use everything at the gym
but after they just dumped me
decorations I remember once I just asked
her like look can I use this a piece of
equipment over here because we used to
use it over there and now things have
been assured you know dude over here
over there was a totally respectful but
boring and practical question i did i
did say pardon me to start it off and so
on perfectly polite
and she behaved as if she was furious at
me and I remember talking about that
with my Chinese teachers it had that
experience before with someone who was
like a woman it was like a this is like
back when I was married I think that was
there was a woman who was like a
waitress but like she thought she was
sparking up a relationship with me she
wasn't I had never shown any interest in
her but if ever talked to her like she
was a waitress she would then be furious
at me like as if to say you're supposed
to talk to me like we're personal
friends you're not supposed to talk to
me like I just work here you know and I
talked to my chinese teacher about that
she was like yeah yeah you're right you
really stuck on something that that's a
factor yeah if you've ever flirted with
the Chinese woman if you've ever taken
it forward a couple steps and then you
talk to them like you're there just an
employee yeah yeah yeah then they're
they're mad at you and stuff and I
remember asking I was like so like yeah
okay so she's furious because I asked
her can I can I use this equipment here
use it there I said but like that still
doesn't mean she has the interest me
what does mean she likes me and uh you
know hey that's my opinion I think my
teacher was like no she probably she
probably does look probably low key
she's she's interested she's trying to
get some that's like no I don't think so
i think i think you can hate and resent
someone for talking to you like they
don't know you and and still have
absolutely romantic interest of them but
anyway now like i say a human heart is a
funny thing but now I could say also i
had no understand our so it goes